1. What is Selenium?
Selenium is an open source suite composed of a set of libraries and tools that enable the automation of web browsers.
We can see Selenium as an umbrella project with three core components: WebDriver, Grid, and IDE (Integrated Development Environment).
Selenium WebDriver is a library that allows the driving of browsers programmatically.
Thus, we can use Selenium WebDriver to navigate websites and interact with web pages (e.g., clicking on links, filling in forms, etc.)
as a real user would do, in an automated fashion. The primary use of Selenium WebDriver is the automated testing of web applications.
Other Selenium uses include the automation of web-based administration tasks or web scraping (automated web data extraction).


2. What is Webdriver?
Selenium WebDriver is a library that allows the controlling of web browsers automatically.
To that aim, it provides a cross-platform API in different language bindings. (Java, Python etc..)
Drivers (e.g., chromedriver, geckodriver, etc.) are platform-dependent binary files that receive commands from a WebDriver script
and translate them into some browser-specific language. In the first releases of Selenium WebDriver (i.e., in Selenium 2),
these commands (also known as the Selenium protocol) were JSON messages over HTTP (the so-called JSON Wire Protocol).
Nowadays, this communication (still JSON over HTTP) follows a standard specification named W3C WebDriver

3. Chrome Driver
Chrome/Chromium
chromedriver
https://chromedriver.chromium.org

4. Architecture
The architecture has three tiers. First, we find a script using the Selenium WebDriver API (Java, JavaScript, Python, Ruby, or C#).
This script sends W3C WebDriver commands to the second layer, in which we find the drivers.
Finally, the third layer contains the web browsers.
In the case of Chrome, the native browser follows the DevTools Protocol.
DevTools is a set of developer tools for browsers based on the Blink rendering engine,
such as Chrome, Chromium, Edge, or Opera. The DevTools Protocol is based on JSON-RPC messages
and allows inspecting, debugging, and profiling these browsers.
In Firefox, the native automation support uses the Marionette protocol.
Marionette is a remote protocol based on JSON, allowing instrumenting and controlling web browsers based on the Gecko engine
(such as Firefox).

Summary of Driver:
Selenium WebDriver allows controlling web browsers as a user would, but programmatically.
To that aim, the Selenium WebDriver API provides a wide variety of features to navigate web pages,
interact with web elements, or impersonate user actions, among many other capabilities.
The target application is web-based, such as static websites, dynamic web applications,
Single Page Applications (SPA), complex enterprise systems with a web interface, etc.
Before using the Selenium WebDriver API, we need to manage these drivers.
Driver management is the process of downloading, setting up, and maintaining the proper driver for a given browser.
webdriver-manager - Python - https://pypi.org/project/webdriver-manager/

5.Selenium Grid
Selenium Grid is a group of networked hosts that provides browser infrastructure for Selenium WebDriver.
This infrastructure enables the (parallel) execution of Selenium WebDriver
scripts with remote browsers of a different nature (types and versions) in multiple operating systems.

6.Selenium IDE
First, in Selenium IDE, the record part captures user interactions with a browser,
encoding these actions as Selenium commands.
Second, we use the generated Selenium script to execute a browser session automatically (playback)

7. Locators
he Selenium WebDriver API provides different ways to locate web elements:
by attribute (id, name, or class),
by link text (complete or partial),
by tag name,
by CSS (Cascading Style Sheets) selector,
or by XML Path Language (XPath).

8. Docker and Selenium
Another solution we can use to support the browser infrastructure for Selenium is Docker.
Docker is an open source software technology that allows users to pack and run applications as lightweight, portable containers.
The Docker platform has two main components: the Docker Engine, a tool for creating and running containers, and the Docker Hub,
a cloud service for distributing Docker images.
In the Selenium domain, we can use Docker to pack and execute containerized browsers

9.Behavior Driven Development
On Selenium | Cucumber - we can build BDD - Gherkins
Testing framework to created automated acceptance tests following a BDD approach

a) Given
Initial context at the beginning of the scenario

b)When
Event that triggers the scenario

c) Then
Expected outcome

Key Parts of a Selenium Automation Framework
1. Page Object Model : The Selenium Page Object Model is based on the programming concepts that a page object class
   should include all aspects of the page under test, such as the elements on the page,
   the methods for interacting with those elements, variables, and properties associated with the class.
   (Does not include Data) - From a maintenance point of view, changes to methods and locators are made in limited,
   central places, reducing the amount of time required to maintain ever-changing applications.
2. Singleton Design Pattern: "In software engineering, the singleton pattern is a software design pattern that
    restricts the instantiation of a class to one object. This is useful when exactly one object is needed to
    coordinate actions across the system.
    The concept is sometimes generalized to systems that operate more efficiently
    when only one object exists, or that restrict the instantiation to a certain number of objects.
    The term comes from the mathematical concept of a singleton." (Wikipedia)
3. Pytest.ini
4. Requirements
4. DRY: promoting the use of common classes, locators, methods, and inheritance to eliminate and
avoid repeating the same actions over and over in multiple places.

SAMPLE PROJECT AND EXPLANATION : MAY NOT WORK
Sample Test Logging into Washington Post
wapo_login_test/
├── pages/
│   ├── __init__.py
│   ├── base_page.py
│   └── login_page.py
├── tests/
│   └── test_login.py
├── utils/
│   ├── __init__.py
│   └── driver_factory.py
├── logs/
│   └── test.log
├── screenshots/
│   └── failed_login.png
├── conftest.py
├── requirements.txt
└── pytest.ini




